外刊阅读20240406｜我知道你急，但你先别急
In a world where we only sample brief slices of each other's lives, it can be easy to make assumptions. Judgment can be automatic. If someone is rude, we might call them a jerk. They could be having a rough day, or they might have no idea they came off that way. They are on their journey. Similarly, if someone doesn't look at us kindly, we might take it to mean they don't like us. It's possible. Or they might also have something else on their mind, or be angry about something that has nothing to do with us.
These judgmental thoughts can slice into our relationships, leading us to disengage. Because humans have a tendency toward negativity bias, we are more likely to make gloomy judgments than positive ones. Yet we might not have enough information and could prematurely be limiting ourselves. A thought doesn't have to be harsh toward another person to be a judgment. We make guesses about others all the time, many times about how we imagine they are judging us. Sometimes—in fact, quite often—we are wrong.

The following three questions can help you slow down and engage in curiosity before passing judgment on someone.

1. Are there other explanations? The motivation for someone's behavior might seem obvious, but your initial assumption could be far from accurate. If you find yourself making internal declarations as to why someone is acting a certain way, you might take a step back and ask, "Are there any other possibilities?"

2. Is this something I can look into or ask about? A lot of conflicts arise in situations where something was assumed without question. If the assumption you're making is something you can ask about or otherwise look into, that may be worth it. For example, if you feel a close friend might be irritated with you, it might feel awkward to ask if they indeed are. But that simple question could be the difference between an injured friendship and maintaining ties.

3. How does this judgment help? Sometimes judgements do help. But often they don't. Judgments more often keep us from opportunities to learn new things and get to know others. If you are assuming someone thinks something dismissive of you, it's unlikely that judgment is helping you in any way. If a judgment is not doing well for you, it's worth asking, "Would it be better to let it go?"

What is the author's stance regarding making judgments about others, as depicted in the passage?

A) The author encourages quick judgments to prevent misunderstandings. 

B) The author suggests that judgments should be based solely on initial impressions. 

C) The author advocates for pausing and considering alternative perspectives before passing judgment. 

D) The author believes that judgments are unnecessary in human interactions.

外刊阅读20240405 | 这玩意儿也有更年期

Seasonality is a big For some industries, seasonal patterns are a defining feature. Agriculture is one obvious example; tourism another. Western toymakers notch up a huge proportion of their annual sales in the run-up to Christmas. Construction is harder during cold weather, which is why that industry employs fewer people in the winter.

Firms that are less obviously tied to the seasons can still be deeply affected by them, as a recent review by Ian Hohm of the University of British Columbia and his co-authors makes clear. An analysis of social-media posts on Twitter, now X, found that dieting-related tweets peak in the spring, as the season of body dysmorphia (ie, summer) approaches. 

Even when overall demand does not vary greatly between the seasons, preferences change. Beef-eaters buy diced meat and roasts in the slow-cooking winter season and plump for steaks during the summer grilling months. Starbucks is among those firms that make seasonality a marketing event. The pumpkin-spiced latte is a reliable sign that autumn is on its way. Seasonality also leaves a less obvious imprint inside organisations. Just as there are daily and weekly patterns of activity, from slumps in concentration during the late afternoons to the ebb and flow of hybrid workers coming to the office, so annual cycles leave their mark.

One is occurring this week, with the World Economic Forum’s annual shindig in Davos. Public holidays aside, in no other week in the working year are so many CEOs of large organisations reliably away. The corporate world is briefly without a government, a concentrated version of Belgium in the early 2010s. This may well be Davos’s real contribution to improving the state of the world: with so many bosses stuck on a mountain for a few days, productive employees can get on with some work and lazy ones can relax.

Set-piece events mark the corporate calendar, too. Some are public: annual general meetings and shareholder letters, say. Others are internal. At many companies the annual budgeting process involves a gathering organisational effort, in which more and more people spend more and more time arguing about numbers that are certain to be wrong. It is almost a season in itself. A pre-pandemic estimate from APQC, a benchmarking organisation, reckoned that the median firm spends around 30 days on this effort; at plenty of firms, it takes an awful lot longer.

In the context of the article, what does the author imply about the impact of seasonality on social media activity, particularly regarding dieting-related tweets?

A) Dieting-related tweets increase during the winter months due to holiday feasting.
B) Social-media posts on Twitter about dieting peak in the spring as summer approaches.
C) Dieting-related tweets remain consistent throughout the year due to stable demand.
D) Twitter users are less likely to engage in dieting discussions during the summer.

外刊阅读20240403 | 新型美容智商税？

Hyaluronic acid, a popular skincare ingredient, doesn’t hold 1000 times its weight in water, despite frequent marketing claims. The ingredient is a humectant, a substance that attracts moisture. Applied topically, it can improve skin hydration, enhance elasticity and reduce wrinkle depth.

But chemists have long suspected that the idea it can hold 1000 times its weight in water is too much of a stretch. The claim has been cited for decades seemingly off the back of research from the 1950s that found hyaluronic acid can trap some water particles, but not necessarily bind to them, which would be required for it to hold the alleged amount of water.

To set the record straight, Scott Borchers and Michael Pirrung, both at the University of California, Riverside, carried out so-called differential scanning calorimetry tests. These apply heat to a material so researchers can record changes to its binding properties.

The pair measured the molecule-binding properties of hyaluronic acid and water at a solution of 1 gram of hyaluronic acid to 1000 grams of water, the supposedly significant ratio, to see if the hyaluronic acid formed chemical bonds with the water. They then compared the results with the thermal changes that take place within pure water during the same differential scanning calorimetry tests, finding that they were essentially indistinguishable. “It does still bind water, just not 100,000 per cent by weight,” says Pirrung. Past studies on hyaluronic acid show that 1 gram binds to around 0.5 to 1.8 grams of water.

Each hyaluronic acid unit only has 12 atoms capable of binding to water via hydrogen bonds. If hyaluronic acid could bind to water 1000 times its weight, each unit would have to hold around 22,000 water molecules. In reality, each atom can only bind to three water molecules, making a maximum of 36 water molecules per unit.

What is the main purpose of the differential scanning calorimetry tests conducted by Scott Borchers and Michael Pirrung at the University of California, Riverside, regarding hyaluronic acid's water-binding properties?

A) To determine if hyaluronic acid forms chemical bonds with water at a specific ratio.
B) To investigate the elasticity-enhancing properties of hyaluronic acid.
C) To analyze the molecular structure of hyaluronic acid.
D) To assess the effectiveness of hyaluronic acid in reducing wrinkle depth.

外刊阅读20240402 | 年轻人熬夜，熬的是自由

Once I finally tuck my kids into bed, clean the kitchen, and shoot off my last work email of the night, it’s “me” time. It’s also, cruelly, bedtime. I know I should sleep, but instead I stay up way too late binge-watching Love Is Blind or mindlessly scrolling on Reddit. I need rest, but I push it off. This is my only uninterrupted time, and I want to maximize it. This phenomenon is so universal that there’s a scientific name for it: “bedtime procrastination.” According to the researchers who coined it in a 2014 study, bedtime procrastination is “failing to go to bed at the intended time, while no external circumstances prevent a person from doing so.”

People with stressful days and little control over their time are the ones most likely to procrastinate going to sleep, says Lynelle Schneeberg, a sleep psychologist at Yale University. Parents with young children, students, or people with extra-demanding jobs fall into this category. Schneeberg says it’s also common—not surprisingly—in people with insomnia, people who already procrastinate in other areas of their lives, “night owls,” and people with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). So—a lot of us.  

We often delay sleep because we want to regain the control—and time—we lost during the day. “When you don’t have the sense that you can manage your own time, it’s really frustrating,” Schneeberg says. Experts believe our addictive electronics have made this problem infinitely worse. “Scrolling, online shopping, social media, TV shows you love—they give you a little hit of pleasure,” Schneeberg says. Repeat this nightly for weeks or months, and “then you're looking for [it], instead of the boredom that comes with signing off and going to bed.” 

Another reason we stay up late? We’re dreading the next day. In one study published in 2023 in the British Journal of Health Psychology, researchers interviewed young people in the workforce about their bedtime habits. One sentiment stood out: they tended to feel a sense of apprehension at starting the next day, which researchers called “tomorrow aversion.”

But here’s the paradox: Instead of getting more control over our days, bedtime procrastinators end up sabotaging them. When I stay up too late, I’m exhausted and groggy the next day. I feel like I’m on autopilot, and I have less energy to do the things I love, like going for a run or playing outside with my kids. The effects are physical, too: my face is puffy, my appetite is poor, and I’m more likely to catch one of my kids’ colds. 

According to the article, what are some reasons why people tend to procrastinate going to sleep?

A) Fear of starting the next day 

B) Desire to maximize personal time 

C) Addiction to electronic devices 

D) All of the above


外刊阅读20240401 | 日本“女性经济学”，能否盘活劳动力市场？
Japan’s economy has rocketed into the headlines this year as inflation returns for the first time in decades, workers win wage gains and the Bank of Japan raises interest rates for the first time in 17 years. But there’s another, longer-running trend happening in the Japanese economy that could prove interesting for American policymakers: Female employment has been steadily rising. Working-age Japanese women have been joining the labor market for years, a trend that has continued strongly in recent months as a tight labor market prods companies to work to attract new employees.

The jump in female participation has happened partly by design. Since about 2013, the Japanese government has tried to make both public policies and corporate culture more friendly to women in the work force. The goal was to attract a new source of talent at a time when the world’s fourth-largest economy faces an aging and shrinking labor market. Still, even some who were around when the “womenomics” policies were designed have been caught off guard by just how many Japanese women are now choosing to work thanks to the policy changes and to shifting social norms.

It’s a surprise that could serve as an important reminder to economic officials around the world. Economists often try to guess how much a nation’s labor force can expand by extrapolating from history — and they tend to assume that there are limits to how many people can be lured into the labor market, since some are likely to stay home as caretakers or for other reasons.

But history has served as a poor guide in Japan over the past decade as social standards, marriage rates and fertility rates have shifted. And the lesson provided by the Japanese experience is simple: Women may be a bigger potential labor force than economists typically count on.

Those changes came about for several reasons. The Japanese government made some important policy moves, for one thing, such as increasing child care center capacity. The nation’s changing attitudes toward family also played a role in freeing up women for work. The average age of people marrying for the first time has been steadily rising, and fertility rates are at record lows. “Delaying marriage, delaying childbearing years, not getting married at all — that’s the big societal backdrop,” said Paul Sheard, an economist who has long been focused on the nation. But there have been limits. There is still a tax penalty for second earners in the nation, and the quality of jobs women hold is not great. They are often lower-paid and for limited hours. Women are also largely absent from leadership ranks in Japanese companies.

What does the term "womenomics" refer to in the context of the article?

A) Policies aimed at increasing female employment in Japan 

B) Economic theories focused on women's impact on the labor market 

C) Social norms and attitudes regarding women in the workforce 

D) Strategies for enhancing leadership opportunities for Japanese women

外刊阅读20240331｜竟然有那么多人在啃老

Nearly half of US parents provide some kind of financial support to their adult children, who are grappling with higher food and living costs than they did, a new study has found. The study – conducted by Savings.com – found that young, working-class Americans were not substantially benefiting from the recovery of the country’s economy, as “evidenced by high employment, falling inflation, and economic growth”. That has forced many of them to continue to rely on their parents to help cover costs of living.

The average age of adults receiving financial help from their parents – sometimes at the risk of the parents’ retirement security – was 22, according to the study. And while parents surveyed in the study on average said their adult children should become financially independent by 25, many were supporting those children beyond that milestone.

Of parents providing support, 21% were helping millennials (age 28-43) or members of gen X (age 44-59). Millennials and gen X adult children were on average given between $907 and $960 each month by their parents. Gen Z adults (between 18 and 27) were getting more help from their mothers and fathers, averaging about $1,515 monthly.

Notably, many adults from gen Z still have college and university expenses. The most common expenses parents covered for adults across those three generations were groceries, food, cellphone bills, rent, mortgages, tuition and health insurance. With soaring costs of food, housing and other living expenses, more adults are either choosing or being forced to still live in their parents’ home, the survey determined. And the future outlook of the cost to live in the US remains bleak.

Working parents were found to contribute “2.4 times more to support adult children than they do to their retirement accounts each month”, according to the Savings.com study. The average amount a parent gives to their adult child each month is $1,384 – more than twice what the average working parent contributed to their own retirement savings monthly, which on average was $609.

Based on the information provided in the article, what is the primary reason why young, working-class Americans are continuing to rely on their parents for financial support despite the country's economic recovery?

A) High inflation rates
B) Rising employment opportunities
C) Increasing costs of living
D) Decline in economic growth

外刊阅读20240330｜这么穿牛仔裤更环保
Blue denim is dyed with indigo – a compound once extracted from plants but usually synthesised today. Harmful chemicals such as sodium dithionite are needed to make indigo soluble in water so that it can be used for dyeing. These chemicals produce toxic fumes that can harm the health of textile workers, and also lead to toxic pollution in waste water. Now, Ditte Hededam Welner at the Technical University of Denmark and her colleagues have developed a new process that instead uses a natural precursor to indigo called indican.

“Indican is also a natural product, so it’s not anything artificial or weird,” says Hededam Welner. “But the good thing about it is that it is soluble, so you can just basically dip your textile in it, which you cannot do with indigo. That’s why it became such an appealing solution to this because you can simply omit so many of the harsh chemicals.”

There is one key disadvantage, though: indican is colourless, so the compound must be converted into indigo after it has been applied to a material. One way to do this is just to leave it in sunlight for several hours. The team found two methods that could instead provide the faster and more repeatable results demanded by modern manufacturing: one using enzymes from plants and one using electrical lights.

Using light is a more straightforward process that cuts the environmental impact of dyeing compared with using indigo by 73 per cent when assessed on a European Commission metric that takes into account carbon dioxide emissions, land use, water consumption and ozone depletion. Using enzymes led to an even greater reduction of 92 per cent.

Hededam Welner says that with further research, the process could be made cheaper and more efficient, but there are major obstacles ahead – not least of which is establishing a supply chain for the 80,000 tonnes of indican that would be needed to produce the 4 billion pairs of jeans manufactured each year.

What is the main advantage of using indican over traditional indigo in the dyeing process, as mentioned in the article? 

A) Indican is naturally occurring and not artificial. 

B) Indican does not require any chemical treatment for solubility. 

C) The use of indican reduces the need for harmful chemicals in the dyeing process. 

D) Indican can be converted into indigo by exposure to sunlight.

外刊阅读20240329｜找到了最纯净的喂食方式
For decades linguists have argued over how children learn language. Some think that babies are born as “blank slates” who pick up language simply from experience—hearing, seeing and playing with the world. Others argue that experience is not enough and that babies’ brains must be hardwired to make acquiring language easy.

AI models such as GPT-4 have done little to settle the debate. The way these models learn language—by trawling through reams of text data from millions of web pages—is vastly different to the experiences of babbling babies.

A team of scientists at New York University examined the question by training an AI model on the experiences of a single infant. Between the ages of six and 25 months, a toddler called Sam wore a head-mounted camera for an hour a week—around 1% of his waking hours. The camera recorded everything he saw and heard while he played with toys, enjoyed days at the park and interacted with his pet cats. The recordings and transcribed audio were fed into an AI, which was set up to know that images and words that appeared at the same time were related, but was otherwise left to make sense of the mess of colours and speech that Sam experienced.

Despite the limited training data, the AI was able to pick out objects and learn the matching words. The researchers tested the model by asking it to identify objects that Sam had seen before, such as a chair from his home or one of his toy balls. Given a list of four options the model picked the correct word 62% of the time, far above the chance level of 25%. To the researchers’ surprise, the model could also identify chairs and balls that Sam had never seen. The AI learnt at least 40 different words, but it was far from matching Sam’s vocabulary and language abilities by the end of the experiment.

The researchers, published recently in the journal Science, argue that, to match words to objects, learning from experience may well be enough. Sceptics, however, doubt that the AI would be able to learn abstract nouns or verbs, and question how similar the learning processes really are. The mystery of language acquisition lives on.

According to the team of scientists at New York University mentioned in the article, what was the main focus of their research with the toddler Sam and the AI model?

A) Studying the differences between language acquisition in babies and AI models. 

B) Training an AI model to match words with objects based on a toddler's experiences. 

C) Testing the AI model's ability to learn abstract nouns and verbs. 

D) Comparing the vocabulary and language abilities of the AI model with those of toddler Sam.

外刊阅读20240328｜休学对人的影响有多大？
Children who are suspended from school in England even for short periods see their GCSE results suffer, according to research that highlights the need for early interventions to reduce suspensions. Pupils who had been suspended were found to be lagging a year behind their peers and on average were unable to achieve a standard pass in GCSE maths and English. The research also found a strong overlap between children being suspended and those diagnosed with special needs and mental health issues, while children who were repeatedly absent were also more likely to be suspended.

“While suspensions are sometimes necessary, supporting pupils who are struggling to engage in mainstream education must continue to be a priority for whoever is in government. We should aim for lower exclusion levels not simply for the sake of it but because it would be a sign of a more effective education system for pupils and teachers alike.”

The study by the Education Policy Institute tracked one year group of more than 550,000 state school pupils in England from the start of secondary school until sitting GCSEs. After adjusting for each pupil’s characteristics, including their previous academic record and whether they received free school meals, the negative effects of suspensions diminished but results remained significantly lower than their peers’.

The likelihood of a child having special educational needs or disabilities increased in line with the number of times they were suspended, the researchers found. Pupils suspended 10 times were almost three times as likely to have special educational needs as pupils who were suspended only once. Social, emotional or mental health issues were the most common issues among suspended pupils.

The report concluded: “Given that suspended pupils are more likely to experience poor outcomes, schools should proactively identify those at risk of suspension and plan early intervention to reduce the need for suspension.” Whiteman said: “As this report points out, suspensions themselves do not necessarily cause worse grades – the picture is far more complex, with suspension rates and lower GCSE grades being driven by a range of complex and common causes.

What is the main implication of the research findings on the relationship between school suspensions and GCSE results in England?

A) Suspensions directly lead to lower GCSE grades in all cases.

B) There is a strong correlation between school suspensions and poor academic performance.

C) Pupils with special needs are less likely to be suspended from school.

D) Schools should increase suspension rates to improve student engagement.

外刊阅读20240327｜“再睡一会儿”的危害没你想得那么大
When your alarm goes off in the early morning, it’s tempting to hit the snooze button and curl back up under the warm covers for a few more minutes of slumber. This repeated postponing of the buzzer is often thought of as a bad habit—one that creates not only a lazy start to a day but also a fragmented sleep pattern that’s detrimental to health. But recent research is contradicting this notion. 

A recent study in the Journal of Sleep Research found that people who regularly pressed the snooze button lost only about six minutes of sleep per night—and it didn’t affect their morning sleepiness or mood. Plus, tests showed that 30 minutes of snoozing improved or did not affect cognition compared with people who woke up the first time their alarm went off. This adds to research in 2022 that also found chronic snoozers generally felt no sleepier than nonsnoozers.

Snoozing does shorten sleep, Sundelin says, but she maintains that it’s not as bad as scientists once thought. Past research suggested that the extra minutes snoozers get don’t really help them feel more rested—and repeatedly waking up and trying to sleep again has been thought to prevent the restorative stages of sleep, including rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. “If you disturb someone's sleep, it's not good-quality sleep, and they often feel tired afterward—but this [idea] is based on a whole night of sleep fragmentation,” explains Sundelin, who adds that most theories about snoozing are “inferred from what we know about sleep in general.”

Sundelin found that snoozing the alarm for half an hour benefited chronic snoozers—people who delay the alarm two or more times a week and almost always fall back asleep between alarms. Thirty-one such chronic snoozers who were observed in the study slept well throughout the night and showed signs of fragmented sleep only in the last 30 minutes before getting up, which is typically around the time when people first hit the snooze button. This fragmented sleep “didn’t have a big enough impact to make them tired” throughout the rest of the day, Sundelin says.

Sundelin’s research also suggests that snoozing might help people shake off morning drowsiness by easing the transition from deep sleep to a lighter stage. A good night’s rest typically involves four to six sleep cycles, each made up of four stages. Light sleep happens in the first two stages of nonrapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. This is when muscles start to relax, and brain activity slows, along with breathing and heart rate—but a person can still be easily woken. As the night goes on, people progressively reach deeper stages. It gets harder to wake up during the third and final stage of NREM sleep and the first stage of REM sleep. A person who receives a phone call during these stages, for example, might be less likely to hear it or remember answering.

What is the main finding of the recent study mentioned in the passage regarding snoozing?

A) Snoozing for 30 minutes has a negative impact on cognition. 

B) Chronic snoozers tend to experience fragmented sleep patterns. 

C) Regularly pressing the snooze button does not significantly affect morning sleepiness or mood. 

D) Snoozing disrupts the restorative stages of sleep, including REM sleep.

外刊阅读20240326｜STOP，别再假装礼貌了
I have studied the sociology of manners for years, and it turns out that manners really do maketh humanity. While many other species engage in cooperative activities, our capacity to share and divide labour among strangers is a “remarkable and uniquely human” phenomenon, writes evolutionary economist Paul Seabright. The ability to place our trust in strangers became possible around 10,000 years ago through the development of shared norms designed to encourage prosocial behaviour and discourage deviance. This is when we moved from isolated groups of hunter-gatherers into complex societies built on mutual cooperation.

However, words like “civility” and “respect” can be a double-edged sword. In Europe, the concept of civility goes back to Erasmus of Rotterdam’s 1530 treatise De Civilitate Morum Puerilium. A training guide for young noblemen, it encouraged readers to be considerate of the needs of others, offering advice such as to not spit on the floor or stick dirty hands in food. In that sense, manners can be a significant force for good.

But manners have also been used to set up status hierarchies. The word “etiquette” derives from the 1600s, when King Louis XIV of France used estiquettes (small cards) around Versailles to advise visitors on the codified rules of behaviour expected in court. Rather than encouraging consideration, manners were a tool for discerning who belonged in certain social spaces. Historians have since studied the use of “racial etiquette” for regulating behaviour. From Asia to the Americas, colonial oppressors often forced Indigenous communities into humiliating performances of deference.

In the 1930s, Norbert Elias published his sociological epic The Civilizing Process. Pointing out that calls for civility and propriety are often most forceful at times of moral conflict, Elias warned of the dangers of confusing manners with morality. A Jewish exile from Nazi Germany, he had seen how easy it can be to mistake the appearance of civilised propriety for actual ethical decency. According to Elias, the Third Reich deliberately utilised displays of dapper uniforms and cultivated mannerisms as cover for acts of unimaginable brutality.

In calling for civility again today, then, we need to heed Elias's warning and pay attention to when a facade of mannerly propriety is used to bring about immoral ends – injustice, violence and ecocide all rendered tolerable so long as everyone speaks calmly and behaves decorously . With so much at stake in 2024, we need to reject the appearance of respectability in favour of building a genuinely respectful world in which everyone has an equal chance to thrive.

What warning does Norbert Elias provide in his sociological work "The Civilizing Process" regarding the relationship between manners and morality?

A) He emphasizes the importance of distinguishing between manners and ethical decency.
B) He praises the Third Reich for their displays of proper etiquette.
C) He suggests that manners are irrelevant in shaping societal norms.
D) He argues that civility should always be prioritized over morality.